Basic concepts of Voxie
=======================

Nodes
-----

All data loaded into voxie is shown in the data flow graph which is visible at
the top left of the voxie main window. This graph consist of individual nodes
which are connected to show the data flow from an initial data set through
filters to some visualizers.

There are the following kinds of nodes:

- **Data nodes**: Data nodes represent some data, e. g. a volume or a surface
  which has been opened from a file or generated by a filter.

- **Filter nodes**: Filter nodes represent some operation which can be applied
  to data and will produce other data nodes. Note that filters can not only
  produce the same type of data (e. g. a gaussian filter which turns one volume
  into another volume) but also produce data of a different type (e. g. the
  marching cubes filter which turns a volume into a surface). Filters can also
  have multiple inputs and outputs or no input or output.

- **Visualizer nodes**: Visualizers will show some data in a window on the right
  side. Visualizers are generally children of data nodes whose data is being
  displayed.

- **Property nodes**: Property nodes are special nodes which represent a set of
  properties. The most important property nodes is the [Plane Property node]
  which represents an infinite plane in 3D space.

- **3D Object nodes**: 3D object nodes can be shown in a 3D visualizer. They
  generally have properties like color etc. 3D object nodes are generally also
  created automatically if a data node is connected to a 3D visualizer node.


[Plane Property node]: voxie:///help/prototype/de.uni_stuttgart.Voxie.Property.Plane
